---
author: "Savithri Rao"
title: "Finger Millet Dosa"
date: 2024-02-26
description: "Ragi Dosa"
tags: ["recipe"]
thumbnail: /RagiDosa.jpg
---
Embark on a culinary journey of health and taste with Fermented Ragi Dosa, a nutritious and flavorful South Indian delicacy. Ragi, also known as finger millet, is a powerhouse of nutrients, and when combined with the fermentation process, it yields dosas that are not only delicious but also easy to digest. This recipe requires a bit of planning with soaking and fermentation time, but the end result is well worth the wait. With its earthy flavor and soft texture, these ragi dosas make for a perfect breakfast or snack option for the entire family. Let's dive into the recipe and explore the wholesome goodness of fermented ragi dosas!

**Preparation Time:** 10 minutes (plus soaking and fermentation time)  
**Soaking Time:** 8 hours  
**Fermentation Time:** 10 hours  
**Cooking Time:** Around 3 - 4 minutes per dosa  
**Servings:** 12 dosas  

## Ingredients:
- 1 cup Finger Millet (Ragi)
- 1/4 cup Split Black Lentils (Urad Dal)
- 2 teaspoons Fenugreek Seeds (Methi Seeds)
- Salt, to taste  

## Preparation Steps:
1. Rinse the ragi, urad dal, and methi seeds thoroughly. Soak them together in water for 8 hours.
2. After soaking, drain the water and grind the soaked ingredients to a smooth batter consistency. Add water gradually as needed.
3. Transfer the batter to a large bowl and let it ferment for 10 hours or until it doubles in volume. Fermentation time may vary depending on the temperature and humidity.
4. Once fermented, add salt to the batter and mix well.

## Cooking Steps:
- The batter is poured on a seasoned cast-iron pan or skillet (tawa) and spread like a pancake and cooked with a drizzle of oil or ghee.

Serve hot with your favorite chutney or sambar.

## Tips:
- Adjust the consistency of the batter by adding water as needed while grinding. It should be neither too thick nor too thin.
- To enhance the nutritional value, you can add finely chopped vegetables like onions, carrots, or spinach to the batter before making dosas.
- Fermentation is crucial for achieving the characteristic flavor and texture of dosas. Ensure the batter is placed in a warm and draft-free place for optimal fermentation.

Enjoy these nutritious and flavorful fermented ragi dosas as a wholesome breakfast or snack option!

